10 this morning, Hebrews chapter number 10.
And we'll pick up where we left off last week.
We looked at the first 18 verses
of Hebrews chapter number 10 last week,
verses one through 18.
And this morning, we'll be looking at verses 19 through 25.
Hebrews chapter number 10, verses 19 through 25.
Notice in verse number 19, the Bible says,
"'Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter
"'into the holiest by the blood of Jesus,
"'by a new and living way,
"'which he hath consecrated for us through the veil,
"'that is to say, his flesh,
"'and having an high priest over the house of God,
"'let us draw near with a true heart
"'in full assurance of faith,
"'having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience
"'and our bodies washed with pure water.
"'Let us hold fast the profession of our faith
"'without wavering, for he is faithful, that promised.
"'And let us consider one another
"'to provoke and to love and to good works,
"'not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together
"'as the manner of some is,
"'but exhorting one another and so much the more
"'as ye see the day approaching.'"
In verse number 20, the Bible says,
"'By a new and living way,''
and this morning, I wanna preach a message
that I've simply entitled, A New and Living Way.
As we have read through and studied the book of Hebrews,
of course, we're continuously confronted
with this truth of the superiority
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
The evidence has been carefully presented.
In fact, as you read these first 10 chapters
and you read up to the place
in which we find ourselves this morning,
you find that the evidence has just been calculated
and just, I mean, just presented
in such a professional manner.
We know it's the word of God.
We know that it's perfect and it's true,
but when you think about the recipients
and even as it's been preserved for us here still today,
that as we read the truth of the book of Hebrews
and you see how the evidence is so carefully presented
and at this particular junction
as we come to verse number 19
and look at the text that we're dealing with this morning,
I really believe that we now are beginning to see
the application of all that has been,
the entire case that has been made
and the case, again, has been presented.
We mentioned often as we studied
throughout this particular section of Hebrews
with the fact that the superiority
of the priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ,
and we mentioned how that the writer
would use the Old Testament prophecies
and he would properly apply them
to the person of Jesus Christ,
and then he would present Jesus Christ
as being the fulfillment of those sacrifices,
and then over these chapters,
prove that he is so far better.
He is superior in every way.
Of course, we are reminded,
we remember as we've studied the passages
of leading up to chapter number 10 here,
that our great high priest ministered in a better place
and he presented a better offering.
We find that when he offered himself,
he was able to accomplish in one sacrifice
that which the Old Testament sacrificial system
could never accomplish.
Remember, as we looked last week
at the first 18 verses of chapter number 10
and we spoke about the introduction of this chapter,
how the law having a shadow of good things to come,
and we find the fact
that the Old Testament sacrificial system was inadequate.
It was a constant reminder of sin,
but when Jesus Christ, God in flesh,
came to this sin-cursed world
and he made one sacrifice for sin forever,
he accomplished in that single sacrifice
what could never be accomplished
through the Old Testament sacrificial system.
And we mentioned at the end of our passage last week
that it's not a remembrance of sin,
but there is a remission of sin.
And what a glorious truth that is.
We understand that Jesus Christ went to that cruel cross
and just before he gave up the ghost,
he said, it is finished.
And what a blessing to understand
that the Lord Jesus Christ,
he went to that cross,
he was buried in a borrowed tomb,
he rose in victory,
conquering sin, death, and the grave.
It's interesting, as you notice,
the first few words of our text of Scripture
that is before us this morning,
notice in verse 19, he says,
having therefore brethren.
And so we understand that as we look
at these first few words of verse number 19,
that the writer, he's writing to save people.
Brethren, amen.
And we understand that terminology
used throughout the New Testament
to refer to those that have been born again,
those who are saved from their sin
and they're heaven bound.
And I'm thankful this morning
that if you are saved,
if you've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your savior,
that we are counted as brethren, amen.
And what a wonderful truth that is.
And he says, having therefore brethren again,
he's going to explain to them
how that these marvelous truths
that have been presented so systematically
and so just, I mean, carefully presented,
he's now gonna say, here's how it impacts your life.
Notice with me as we look at the passage
in verses 19 through 21,
if you're taking notes,
notice what we have received.
He says in verses 19 and 20,
as we look at this truth that is before us,
he reminds us that because of all of this truth
that has been presented,
because of what the Lord Jesus Christ did,
because of his sacrifice,
when he offered himself his sacrifice for sin,
his death, burial and glorious resurrection,
that one thing that we have received
according to verses 19 and 20
is access into the holiest of all.
Notice, he says, having therefore brethren,
notice this, boldness to enter into the holiest,
notice what it says, by the blood of Jesus.
We understand that over the last section
of the book of Hebrews,
that often what has been in view
is that day of atonement on the Jewish calendar
once a year where they would make a note
of how the high priest would enter,
not simply into the holy place,
but on that single day each year,
he would enter into the holy of holies
and he better not go in there without blood.
He could only enter once a year
and we understand that he would enter
that first time and he would bring
the blood of that bull to present for his own sin
and then we find that he would exit
and then he would go back in
and he would take the blood of that goat
to present for the sins of the people
and how important it was
that he would enter into with the blood.
We understand that our Savior is perfect,
he's sinless, he did not have to make an offering
for his own sin, simply for the sin of the world
and so he entered once
and now because of what the Lord Jesus Christ did
on the cross of Calvary,
we find that we now have access into the holiest.
We find that he says that we have boldness
to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus
by a new and living way,
which he hath consecrated for us through the veil,
that is to say, his flesh.
This morning in my Bible reading,
I was actually finishing the last half
of the book of Matthew
and as I was reading through the book of Matthew
early this morning and finishing up
and reading about what the Lord Jesus Christ suffered
for my sin and for your sin and for the sin of the world
and I was reading those passages of scripture once again
and I was reminded how that when he gave up the ghost,
how that the veil of the temple was rent in twain,
showing us that there was access
that was now made available
and we find here that that access is available.
It is a new and living way.
You understand that until this time in history
for the Jewish people,
if they were to go and to make these sacrifices,
that priest could not just decide on any particular day,
I think I'm gonna go into the holy of holies.
It would be very dangerous for him to do so
and we understand that now as New Testament believers,
there is a new and living way
and we have access into the holiest.
It's interesting and we'll make note in just a moment
with regard to this opportunity that we have
and how this truth of what we have received
should impact us.
We find that it says through the veil,
that is to say his flesh.
I'm so thankful that he offered himself.
Remember, we've often mentioned
how that he presented a better offering.
Remember, it was that offering of bulls and goats,
the blood sacrifices throughout
all of the Old Testament period of time,
the nation of Israel in their history
and you find that the writer concludes
in Hebrews chapter number 10
that it could never with those sacrifices
which they offered year by year
continually make the comers thereunto perfect.
There's a constant reminder in verse number 11,
it says every priest standeth daily ministering
and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices,
notice, which can never take away sins.
But Jesus Christ, God in flesh,
He went to that cruel cross
and He provided a way for us,
a new and living way,
which He in verse number 20
hath consecrated for us through the veil,
that is to say His flesh.
Remember, the beginning parts of the book of John,
when Jesus said,
destroy this temple in three days,
I'll rise it up, right?
And they began to question
and began to have some concern about that.
He spoke about the temple of His body.
In fact, as you read the end of Matthew,
chapter 27, you begin to see
after Joseph of Arimathea comes
and they're going to take the body of Jesus
to that borrowed tomb,
that the enemies come and they say,
we remember what this man said.
And so let's make this sepulcher
as sure as possible,
lest His disciples come
and steal Him away by night.
We understand that the disciples
didn't have to come and steal Him away
because He would rise and conquer
sin, death, and the grave.
And so we find that we now have access
into the holiest in verses 19 and 20.
Notice what we've received
according to verse 21.
Notice what he says.
"...and having a high priest
over the house of God."
We've often over these last several chapters
literally going all the way back
to the end of chapter 4.
We have labored through these chapters
of the book of Hebrews
dealing with and proving the fact
that our High Priest,
our great High Priest,
the Lord Jesus Christ,
that He is superior.
The Jewish people,
the folks that were the original recipients
of this book,
they understood what it was
to have a high priest.
They understood the role of the high priest.
This was something that was very common to them
and something that they would be familiar with
as they would leave that Judaism
and that system,
that Old Testament sacrificial system,
they're leaving that high priest.
But we find that the writer is saying,
but we have a high priest.
And our high priest is better.
He's greater.
He's over the house of God.
Remember, in Hebrews 4 and verse 14,
the Bible says,
"...seeing then that we have
a great High Priest
that is passed into the heavens.
Jesus, the Son of God,
let us hold fast our profession,
for we have not a high priest
which cannot be touched
with the feeling of our infirmities,
but was in all points tempted like as we are,
yet without sin."
There in chapter 5,
as he begins dealing with the duties
and responsibilities of the high priest
and what they very much would have been familiar with,
he's given the truth
prior to presenting that evidence
that we have a high priest.
And what a joy that is.
So we notice in v. 19-21,
we notice what we have received,
but I want you to consider now with me
how we should respond.
As a result of these great truths,
we now see that there are three ways
in which the child of God should respond.
It is interesting and noteworthy
as you look at v. 22-25
how you'll see this phrase,
let us.
You see it at the beginning of v. 22,
the beginning of v. 23,
and again at the beginning of v. 24.
V. 24-25, similar thought in both of those verses.
That's why you don't see it again
specifically to start v. 25.
But let's look at these three indications,
these three truths that we find
on how it is that we as the children of God
should respond.
Understanding, again, all of the evidence
that has been provided
and all of the truth that has been presented
by the writer,
and now we're going to take,
we're going to say, okay,
now here's how that affects us.
Here's how that impacts us.
Isn't that wonderful?
See, it's great to know
that we have a great high priest.
It's great to know that Jesus is superior,
that He's greater than the prophets,
that He's greater than the angels,
that He's greater than Moses,
that He's greater than Abraham,
that He's greater than the Aaronic priesthood.
It's great for us to understand those things,
but what does it mean for me?
How does it impact me?
And remember, these believers
that are being written to here in the book of Hebrews,
they're dealing with this struggle
and this pool of returning to Judaism,
returning to that Old Testament sacrificial system.
And the writer of Hebrews is saying,
but Christ is so much better.
Look at what He offers.
Look at what you have in Christ
that you could never have
in that Old Testament sacrificial system
because if it would have allowed you to be made perfect,
you would have stopped bringing those offerings.
But you never were able to stop bringing the offerings
because it never could make you perfect.
Now, we understand that God Himself is the one
that ordained that Old Testament sacrificial system.
And He is the one that ordained it
so that it would be a type,
a picture of what Jesus would accomplish
on the cross of Calvary.
The real thing is always better
than what we see in looking at the passage.
And you think about what He says
at the beginning of verse number one in Hebrews 10,
the law having a shadow of good things to come.
You think about a shadow.
It's not the real thing.
It's not the very image.
And what a great way that the writer
presents this truth to us.
And so now as He's going and making this application,
He says, now brethren,
we understand that because we now have access
into the holiest because Jesus has provided that access,
now we understand that we do have a high priest,
the great high priest,
our Lord Jesus Christ, and He is superior.
Notice how we should respond.
Number one, in verse number 22,
it says, let us draw near.
Let us draw near.
Notice what He says.
With a true heart in full assurance of faith.
We just sang blessed assurance.
It was the last congregational song
that we sang this morning.
What a wonderful hymn that is.
I'm so thankful for the Word of God
that helps the child of God
understand their security in Christ.
I'm so thankful that God in all of His wisdom
that He's provided us with passages of Scripture
that teach us about the eternal security of the believer,
that we can have assurance of our salvation,
that we can have that confidence.
We find that He says here,
listen, He's provided access
and therefore we should draw near.
Does that make sense?
How sad it is to understand that we have access
into the very throne room of God,
yet we say, I'm too busy.
We understand the truth that we have the access.
We have the opportunity.
In fact, He's given us the invitation.
And so what does He say?
Because we have access, let us draw near.
Let us come.
Let us approach in full assurance
in that confidence that He mentions here.
Let us draw near with a true heart
in full assurance of faith.
Now, understand with me this morning
that there are some places upon this earth
that you do not have access to.
There are some places upon this earth
that I do not have access to.
If you work in a corporate setting,
perhaps you have some kind of an ID badge.
And back in the day, like nine months ago,
when you used to go to the office
and people actually had to use their little badge
to get into the building.
When I worked for Sikorsky,
there were certain buildings
that my badge would give me access to.
And there were other buildings
that I did not have access to.
Why?
Because I wasn't supposed to be in those buildings.
There were things taking place in those buildings
with manufacturing processes
that I was not supposed to be there.
So my badge wouldn't let me in.
I didn't have access.
But Jesus has provided the way.
He is the way, the truth, and the life.
John 14, remember Jesus said that to His disciples.
He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life.
No man cometh unto the Father but by Me.
And we find this new and living way.
And so we have access.
It's good to know that we have the access,
but the response to understanding that truth
is that we draw near.
How confusing it is to know that we have access
and yet decide not to enter.
To forego the opportunity of fellowship.
To forego the privilege of prayer.
In His presence, the psalmist said,
is fullness of joy.
And so the writer says the first response
to the truth that has been presented
is that we should draw near.
Notice as he continues the latter part of verse number 22,
having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience
and our bodies washed with pure water,
you understand the ceremonial washings
that they would deal with,
and understand again as these Jewish believers
would be receiving this particular book
and understanding the familiar aspect
that they would have with all that took place
on that day of atonement.
We're familiar as you would think
about the tabernacle itself.
And that's the greatest similarity
to what God is giving us here in the book of Hebrews.
And you'd understand that after that brazen altar is what?
It's the laver.
It's the place where they would wash.
It's interesting there's no dimensions that are provided.
In John chapter number 13,
we find that Jesus as He would wash the disciples' feet,
that it's a picture of that importance
of being cleansed for service.
And we can be reminded here in verse number 22
about our response that we're to draw near.
And we can understand that we are able to draw near.
Our hearts have been sprinkled from an evil conscience
and our bodies washed with pure water.
We understand also,
actually, as we finished up the last section last week,
that we have remission.
Amen?
You understand this morning
that this truth of Hebrews 10
that we're dealing with this morning,
that this is a truth that is given
to a believer to draw near.
See, the lost person doesn't have access to God
the same way that you have access to God.
He must first come to the cross.
Amen?
He must first trust Jesus Christ
as his personal Savior,
and once he trusts Jesus Christ
he now has this access
that we're speaking of this morning.
Why?
Because we've been justified.
We have been made righteous,
declared righteous.
We understand the righteousness of God
has been imputed upon us,
and we have remission.
What a blessing.
And so we can draw near.
We can draw near.
We find that in Hebrews 4,
I mentioned I read verses 14 and 15 already,
how wonderful the connection is here
between Hebrews 10 and verse 22
and Hebrews 4 and verse 16.
We read verses 14 and 15 a moment ago
dealing with the fact that we have
a great high priest.
And what was the impact
of that recognition of that truth?
It was this in verse 16,
Let us therefore come boldly
unto the throne of grace,
that we may obtain mercy
and find grace to help
in time of need.
I'm so thankful that we can go boldly
to the throne of grace.
That we can go in full assurance,
understanding that we are the children of God.
Isn't that wonderful?
Remember the story of the prodigal son?
He went out and he wasted all of his living.
Right?
He was eaten in the slop.
He had nothing.
He'd wasted everything.
Why did he go home?
Yes, he was at the end of himself,
but he had an opportunity.
He had a relationship.
And we understand this morning
that as we look at the truth here
of Hebrews 10,
and we see how these marvelous truths
have been presented,
we now find the application for us
as the people of God,
as the children of God.
Remember, having therefore brethren.
He's writing to the believers.
He's giving them this admonition,
this encouragement.
Let us draw near.
We understand that Peter will deal
with the truth of the priesthood
of the believer.
And we as Baptist people,
if we were to go through the list
of Baptist distinctives,
we find that first and foremost
is that we would say that the Bible
is the sole authority for faith and practice,
but then we would get down to the fact
of the priesthood of the believer.
And what a joy to know that we can enter
into His presence,
that we can draw near
with that full assurance of faith.
Notice, number two,
in these responses that are provided to us
in v. 23,
let us, notice v. 23,
hold fast the profession of our faith
without wavering.
Let us hold fast to keep or to possess.
We find that he says our profession
or the profession of our faith.
Then notice this, without wavering.
Without wavering.
It's interesting as you look at
what's taking place again
during the particular time
in which the book of Hebrews is written,
and you understand all of the difficulty
in which these believers are facing,
and yet we find that as the book of Hebrews
would present what we have in Christ
and what Christ has provided for us,
He tells these believers
to hold fast the profession of our faith
without wavering.
To hold it fast.
To keep. To possess.
The profession, that's really our confession,
our salvation of our faith.
It's interesting that that word faith
is often translated as hope.
And we understand even as the girl sang this morning,
our hope is Jesus.
And we speak about the blessed hope
and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior,
the Lord Jesus Christ.
And I'm so thankful that when we use the word hope
from a biblical perspective,
that hope is a certain expectation
based upon revealed truth.
It's not this pie in the sky,
I'm just hoping that something's going to happen,
it's gonna get better, it's gonna whatever.
No, no, I have full assurance and full expectation
because of what God has said.
Notice He says without wavering.
Why would we not waver?
How is it that we could not waver?
Notice He says, what a wonderful reminder
at the end of verse number 23,
how it is that we could have no wavering,
for He is faithful, that promised.
Aren't you thankful that our God is faithful?
We sing, great is thy faithfulness.
The Apostle Paul, on a number of occasion
throughout the letters that God allowed him
to be the human penman of,
will speak of the faithfulness of God.
It's Jeremiah that pens the words
that we believe obviously have impacted that great hymn,
great is thy faithfulness.
There in the book of Lamentations,
and he recalls these things,
and therefore he has hope,
and he speaks about the mercy of God,
but he speaks about great is thy faithfulness.
In Lamentations 3, in verse number 23.
And we find ourselves here looking at this truth
that we're to hold fast the profession of our faith
without wavering, for He is faithful, that promised.
And we understand this morning the promises of God
that they are certain.
Peter refers to the promises of God
as being great and precious promises,
and certainly they are.
I hope this morning that you're regularly reminding yourself
of the promises of God,
and that those promises of God
that we find within the Word of God
are ministering to our hearts,
and they're building our faith,
and they're helping us to continue without wavering,
even as we see here.
Notice if you go back a few chapters
to Hebrews chapter number six,
you may recall many weeks ago
when we studied this passage of Scripture
that there's a reference here with regard to a promise
that was made to Abraham,
and we made note of this.
You notice in verse number 13,
in Hebrews chapter number six,
the Bible says for when God made promise to Abraham,
because he could swear by no greater,
he swore by himself.
You skip down and you notice in verse 15,
and so after he had patiently endured,
he obtained the promise.
Why?
Because God said it.
God said you're gonna have a son, right?
We mentioned as we studied Hebrews chapter number six
that really what's in view here,
not so much the promise of the land
as much as the promise of the seed.
And we looked at Galatians chapter number three.
In fact, we'll look at some of that this evening
from Genesis chapter number 12,
and we find here that he obtained the promise.
Listen, they did have a son, did they not?
Praise the Lord.
And we're so thankful.
You notice in verse number 17
how the writer again is speaking
about this Old Testament truth,
and he's speaking about these promises that were given
or this promise specifically that was made to Abraham,
and then he deals with how this should impact us.
Notice in verse 17 wherein God willing more abundantly
to show unto the heirs of promise
the immutability of his counsel confirmed it by an oath.
We find in verse number 18 and 19
that by two immutable things
in which it was impossible for God to lie,
we might have a strong consolation
who have fled for refuge to lay hold
upon the hope set before us,
which hope we have as an anchor of the soul,
both sure and steadfast,
and which entereth into that within the veil.
Hebrews 10 as we're looking here,
and we find that he's saying to these believers,
let us hold fast the profession of our faith
without wavering, why?
Because he is faithful that promised.
It's not a situation in which we have to say,
I wonder if God's going to do what he said he's going to do.
I'm so thankful that we never have to have that thought.
We can rest assured that God will do
what he said he will do.
Now admittedly, it might not be in your timeframe
or in my timeframe, amen?
Sometimes we think that we would like for God
to work on our timeline,
but God's working on his timeline.
And by the way, his timeline is perfect, amen?
Mine's not, neither is yours.
So we find that the application is given.
Number one, let us draw near.
Number two, let us hold fast.
Notice verse number 24 and 25.
Number three, if you're taking notes,
let us consider one another.
Notice here, and let us consider one another
to provoke unto love and to good works.
We'll get to verse number 25 here in just a moment.
It's interesting as you note that word consider,
it means to attentively perceive.
You find that he says, here, let us consider one another,
and then he uses this word to provoke.
You know, that word typically is used
in a negative connotation, is it not?
But here, we find that it's used in a very positive manner.
Why?
Because of what it is that we're provoking someone to,
what it is that we're inciting them to do.
Number one, he says that we're to provoke unto love.
Unto love.
1 Corinthians 13 deals with the subject matter of charity,
and how important that subject matter is.
matter is we understand the Lord Jesus Christ in John chapter 13 before he gave
that great promise that we so often refer to in the first several verses of
chapter 14 but after he'd washed the disciples feet and we find that he comes
and he's speaking to them and at the end of chapter number 13 he says this
beginning in verse number 31 of John 13 therefore when he was gone out Jesus
said now is the Son of Man glorified and God is glorified in him verse 32 if God
be glorified in him God shall also glorify him in himself and shall
straightway glorify him little children yet a little while I am with you you
shall seek me and as I said unto the Jews whither I go you cannot come to
come so now I say to you notice this in verse 34 and 35 a new commandment I
give unto you that you love one another as I have loved you that you also love
one another by this by what our loved one for another by this shall all men
know that you're my disciples if you have love one to another what a great
subject matter and what a great truth it's not so much that we're to love our
neighbor as ourself but we're to love as Christ loved and we understand that his
sacrificial love by the way the Holy Spirit of God is as we trust Christ as
our Savior and the Holy Spirit of God and dwells us it's that it's the Holy
Spirit of God that enables us to love in the manner in which we're supposed to
and we find that he says that we're to love one another as I have loved you
that you also love one another we find that the theme of brotherly love is
carried throughout the New Testament you find that Paul is he's writing to
the believers in Thessalonica that he challenges them with regard to their
love one for another in fact he tells them that you already do this in first
Thessalonians he's really commending them on how they were demonstrating their
love one for another and as he commends them for this and tells them of their
love one for another in first Thessalonians 4 in verse number 9 he
says but as touching brotherly love you need not that I write unto you for ye
yourselves are taught of God to love one another and indeed ye do it toward all
the brethren which are in all Macedonia but we beseech you brethren that ye
increase more and more so we find that as we look at this third charge if you
will that is given in Hebrews chapter number 10 the response of the child of
God because of that which we have received and we find that we received
that access into the holiest we've received we have in high priest he says
that were to draw near that were to hold fast and he says let us consider one
another and as we are attentively perceiving considering one another were
to provoke were to incite them number one to love and number two to good works
to good works unto love and to good works we understand this morning that
good works has never saved anyone not possible not by works of righteousness
which we have done amen we understand the truth of the Word of God in fact
Hebrews has extensively dealt with the fact that only through the shedding of
blood is remission there's no possible way that we could be good enough to get
ourselves to heaven there are a number of religious organizations in the world
that teach this subject matter of good works how can I get to heaven one day
it's based upon what you do and all of your good works and we understand
without any type of apology that that is not true the Word of God clearly
indicates that it's by grace are you saved through faith amen aren't you
thankful for that we've often asked the questions I've spoken to some about their
eternal salvation and they said well I think I'm gonna go to heaven because I'm
a good person I do good things and so on and so forth and you go down that
path and you find inevitably that the individual always becomes the standard
how do you know if you've done enough good how do you know how bad that bad
thing was that canceled out those good things I mean that's a constant mess
there's no assurance in that Jesus said it's not possible but we understand
biblically that these truths even that we find here this this this last
challenge that is given that we're to consider one another provoking to love
and to good works it's not these good works are not so that we can be saved
they're not even so that we can stay saved they're a result of being saved
right we understand we often quote Ephesians 2 8 and 9 for my grace are you
saved through faith and that not of works is excuse me and that not of
yourselves of the gift of God not of works lest any man should boast but we
find that verse number 10 of Ephesians 2 says for we are his workmanship created
in Christ Jesus unto good works which God hath before ordained that you should
walk in them remember as we study the book of Ephesians that the first three
chapters of the book of Ephesians deal with our our security in Christ who we
are our identity in Christ that we are accepted in Jesus aren't you thankful
for that if you've trusted Jesus your personal Savior listen you're not
sending your own righteousness you're sending in his righteousness it's been
imputed upon you and so we find that the subject matter of salvation is dealt
with in those first three chapters the book of Ephesians and then he begins to
deal with their behavior their walk their manner of life in chapters 4 5 &
6 and we've made know often and it's so important that we once again deal with
this is is the fact that we are not doing those things so that we can be
saved the subject of salvation has already been settled we're not doing
those things so that we can stay saved the subject of salvation has already
been settled we do those things because I am saved oftentimes there are those
critics that would pit in the Word of God Paul against James they'd say the
Pauline writings are in contradiction to what James says they're absolutely not
in contradiction in fact as you read the Pauline epistles you often find that
Paul deals with the subject of good works read the book of Titus you see the
subject of good works in every chapter of the book of Titus you find that James
is saying I'm gonna show you my faith by my works right the fruit of salvation
are these good works the root of salvation is faith in Jesus Christ we
find here this morning that just as the subject matter for centuries has been so
important as I was out last week I had the faith for the family radio station
on and I heard some statistics that were given of a recent poll that was done by
the Barna group and I understand many things about statistics and polls and
surveys and all of those things and they said of those that were asked this
question with regard to salvation that nearly 70% of those that responded said
you could be saved by being a good person our world is blinded the God of
this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not right they're going
around some religious person some some person that has some level of credential
quote-unquote has said do these things and everything's gonna be okay Jesus
said I've already done it I it is finished I paid the price and so we find
that here as we find the the third level of truth that is given in verses 24 and
25 that were to consider one another were to provoke one another unto love
and to good works isn't it awesome how that verse number 25 then begins talking
about the forsaking of the assembling of ourselves together why where is it that
we use the gifts that God has given us God has equipped us if you're a child of
God this morning if you've been born again then you have a spiritual gift
you've been gifted where do we use our spiritual gift in the church the house
of God we find that the Bible says not forsaking the assembling of ourselves
together notice this phrase as the matter of some is there are some that
were forsaking the assembling says this but exhorting one another that phrase we
find in verse 24 that were to consider one another and to provoke into love and
good works now in verse number 25 we find that he says exhorting one another
the idea of coming alongside someone the idea of encouraging and strengthening by
consolation that we're coming alongside what a wonderful truth that we have the
opportunity not only to consider one another to provoke one another but we
find here to exhort one another through the assembling of ourselves together we
have the opportunity to exhort one another I know that Hebrews 10 in verse
number 25 has been a verse that has been used often in 2020 it's a verse that
we've seen people use so frequently across the land of America as we've
dealt with this pandemic and the inability of churches to be able to meet
so on and so forth can I tell you that that God's design is for
the church to meet. It's God's plan. We find here that the idea of what was
taking place and what's going on, he's giving these believers this
understanding that you assemble together. You know, there's something special about
church. And we understand that church is not the building. We understand that. We
often refer to, we're going to church, right? We use that terminology. Oh yeah,
there's the church building. This is just the place that God has given us to meet.
But the church is the people. It's a called-out assembly. Amen? I mean, I hope
that this building never gets destroyed, but if this building were to be
destroyed, it doesn't mean that the church is destroyed. Because the church is a
group of people. We understand that the church is made up of saved people. We
understand the truth of membership in a church and the importance of folks
being saved and baptized and then added to the church. And so we find that the
church is of significant, you understand, it's significant to God. Listen, the
church was not man's idea. It was the idea of God. God ordained the church. In fact,
Ephesians tells us when he gives the admonition to husbands, love your wives,
even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. We find that Jesus said
in Matthew chapter number 16, when he's speaking to Peter, he says, I will build
my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I'm so thankful
for the church, the assembling of God's people. It's interesting that this
phraseology, the assembling of ourselves, the only other time that you
see that same phraseology, not in the English, but in the Greek, that's used is
actually in first Thessalonians 4 when we're caught up together in the clouds
and we assemble with Jesus. Isn't that awesome? It's a great truth. The rapture
of the church. By the way, I'm listening for the trumpet, aren't you? And what a
blessing to understand that our God is soon going to return and we know that
he's going to come right on time. In fact, that is how verse number 25 ends.
Once again, the truth of Christ's return is in view. He says this, not forsaking
the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one
another. Notice this last phrase, and so much the more as you see the day
approaching. Can I ask you this morning, can you see the day approaching? I think
it's quite obvious. I know that preachers have said it for years and
it's kind of a cute little statement that we're closer now than we've ever
been. That's because every single day we're one day closer than we've ever
been, amen? We understand that. But the reality this morning is that when you
see the events worldwide of things that are taking place and you begin to
see these things unfolding, you are understanding that, listen, we see the
day approaching. And what is he saying? And so much the less? No, no. And so much
the more. And we find the emphasis that is placed upon the assembling together
of the people of God, and we find that, listen, for a long time in our culture in
America, it's been very easy and convenient to be a Christian. It really has.
There's not been much of a price that we've had to pay to be a follower
of Jesus Christ in this nation. But we have brothers and sisters all across the
globe that pay high price to gather together. I read often throughout the
last couple of weeks of different things that are taking place in different
countries and how God is moving and how God is working. It's encouraging. He's
working through his church. And we sometimes have in our mind this idea of
church, this big fancy building and all of these things, but the church is the
people. It's the people. And we assemble together and so much the more as you see
the day approaching. See, Paul said this, that the church is the pillar and ground
of the truth. It's a place where we go to fulfill that which we find here in
verses 24 and 25, that we're provoking one another into love and good works,
that we're exhorting one another. We find it's a place in which we receive
instruction. We receive that which we need for going out and serving the Lord
and being the light in the world that he's called us to be. The church is
important. I know that there have been many over this pandemic that have gotten
very irritated over the fact that there have been certain governors across the
land and even our national leadership that have distinguished or determined
and denoted certain organizations as being essential. You've heard the
terminology, right? I mean, here in the state of Virginia, the Commonwealth of
Virginia, our governor listed certain things that are essential and other
things that aren't. And something that's interesting in almost every one of the
states within the Union, they have said that church is not essential, right? You
know what's interesting? I think for far too long the people of God have lived
as if the church wasn't essential. What do I mean by that? Well, it was just kind of
like if we can make it, we can. If we can't, we can't. You know, it wasn't that
priority. And perhaps if the people of God for the last three to five
generations in this country had lived as if the church was essential, we wouldn't
be dealing with fighting, yes, the church is essential. Have we proven it? I agree
this morning that the church is essential. We need church. I'm thankful
that there was a pastor by the name of Rodney Padat that after my parents got
saved, he had a class and he taught my parents the importance of church. You
know why I'm thankful for that? Because my parents took me to church. I got saved.
There was a time in my life for a number of years where we never went to church. I
mean, never. Not even Easter. I just don't remember as a 9, 10, 11 year old boy
I don't remember going to church ever. Sundays was a day to go to the skating
rink. I'm just being transparent. It's what we did. Then my parents got saved. There's a
pastor that taught them the importance of church. I've often said that from the
time that my parents got saved, if I could remember, recall in my mind just a
handful of times that I went to church prior to that, that there's probably
fewer times than that that I missed church after they got saved. Because
somebody taught them the importance of church. I didn't start going to church on
Wednesday night when I became a pastor. I went to church on Wednesday night because
church house was open. What I'm saying this morning is that church, we
find not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. It's not that idea of
missing a service here and there. It's the idea of just forsaking it, leaving it,
saying I don't need that. We need it. And we find that here as the believers are
given this truth, what they have received, the access that they have,
that Jesus is our great high priest. So what do we do? We draw near. We hold fast
and we consider one another. This is the response to that which we have received
and we understand the the place of the local church, understand that here in the
first century these believers, you know, all they really had was each other. It's
all they had. In fact, there are some places around the world today that you
could go and all the believers have is each other. Unfortunately in America, I
say unfortunately, but the reality is that as they believe in America, for too
long people have been able to get along without the church. We just need to call
it like it is. I'm not angry with anybody. I'm just saying the
facts. This is the way it is in America. There are a number of churches around our
land that say, you know what, we should just go ahead and cancel Sunday night
service. We should just go ahead and cancel Wednesday night service because
the attendance is too low. People don't come. Yeah, it happens. In fact, we've had
people that have contacted us just because they saw that we had a Sunday
night service and they've said this, do you really have a Sunday night service?
Yes, we do. It's not just like on the advertising on the board. We really do. We
meet together, but you can see it. You can look at the history of it in this land
and what do we see that? We see that for too long believers have been able to get
along in this nation without the church, but in the first century when they were
coming out of that Judaism and they were saved, man, they only had each other and
the Lord. Amen? And so he says, listen, you have access. You have an high priest and
therefore draw near, hold fast, and consider one another.
unto love and good works do these things why because of what you've received and
then you see throughout the church history you see how the church has been
so blessed by God as they've fulfilled the Commission that God has given see
Jesus has given us a new and living way it's so much different than that old way
aren't you thankful for that I listen I am so thankful to be on this side of
Calvary amen and praise the Lord for what Jesus
accomplished for what we received and now we need to respond let us let us do
these things amen let's pray together father we love you this morning we thank
you for loving us we thank you for the Word of God the truth contained therein
we thank you for salvation we thank you that the Lord Jesus Christ went to that
cruel cross bled and died suffered greatly was buried and then rose in
victory we thank you that he ascended to heaven that he ever liveth to make
intercession for us we thank you that we have access this new and living way we
thank you that it was through his flesh through that death burial and
resurrection we thank you that we have an high priest the great high priest
our Lord Jesus Christ Lord I pray that is these marvelous truths have been
presented now therefore brethren as a result of understanding what we've
received here's how we respond God I pray that you would help us to draw near
help us to hold fast help us to consider one another help us were to be faithful
help us to have no wavering knowing that you're faithful that that he that has
promised is faithful we thank you for the faithfulness that you have
demonstrated throughout your word and throughout history we thank you that you
always do what you say you will do I pray God that you would use us use us to
make a difference in our community in our state in our country in our world
Lord I pray that you'd help us to set our affection on things above not on
things of this earth help us Lord to look to Jesus the author and finisher of
our faith if there's one this morning that's not sure of heaven whether they're
here locally or watching on the live stream that's our prayer that today
would be the day of their salvation they need to come by the way of the cross
understanding that their sinner in need of a Savior that Jesus Christ is the
only Savior that he paid the debt that they could not pay Lord I pray as the
Bible says for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved
today Paul said is the day of salvation that not one person would let it pass by
if they're not sure of heaven they get it settled today father for every
believer we're brethren would you help us to follow the admonition that's been
given in these past these verses of Scripture help us Lord to be doers of
the word and not hearers only we pray that you'd move and work as only you can
for it's in Christ's name we pray would you stand